## Personal Note

Unfortunately, I was too busy to get an outlook out before the trading week. I thought it would be more beneficial to use the free time I had to get a full January overview out and review the events of the past year.


---
## Summary: Starting the year with a bang.

So far in the first week of the year, more events have transpired than is believable:

- **Venezuela:** To start 2026 off, the Trump administration's first major move was the capture of President Maduro, the leader of Venezuela. How this unfolds is unknown, but it is currently headlining news as Maduro’s trial is around the corner; he faces harsh charges for "Narcoterrorism." Russian and Chinese ministers have responded in the media, calling Trump a bully with no regard for international law. The fallout from this event will be significant as America sets a new precedent. Countries like Russia, China, and Israel will likely use this as a justification to disregard international law going forward. My eyes are on Ukraine, Taiwan, and Iran for the next moves.

- **Fleeing Oil Tanker, Bella-One:** Following the invasion of Venezuela, a tanker bearing the Guyanese flag fled the western hemisphere seeking refuge. Once in the North Atlantic, the tanker (now renamed the _Marinera_) donned a Russian flag to deter US forces. However, as the US has military presence almost everywhere, they were boarded by US military personnel. Russian submarines that were deployed to protect the tanker could not make it in time. Currently, Moscow and the White House are in talks while their militaries are in a standoff. Russia has requested that all Russian citizens on board are returned unharmed, but the outcome is unknown. The detained tanker had a crew of 28: this included 20 Ukrainians, 6 Georgians, and 2 Russians.

- **Iran, Civil Unrest:** Protests in Iran are escalating with conflicts sparking nationwide. Iran recently executed a high-ranking MOSSAD agent, who was rumored to be further incited riots in Tehran. Kurdish groups in western Iran are stirring up problems; while the IRGC was initially hesitant to engage, reports suggest they are now in active conflict with deaths reported on both sides. The protests in Iran were massive today, it is impossible to deny the unrest. As of writing this, there is allegedly a nationwide internet blackout.

---

## Economic Overview:

More delayed data has been released this week with varied results. The main thing I am paying attention to is the forecasted results and any releases that meet or exceed them, as those will have the most widespread effects on the markets.

- **Monday:** We had the [[ISM Manufacturing PMI]]. The actual result (47.9) was lower than previous levels and did not meet expectations.

- **Wednesday:** [[ISM Services PMI]] exceeded expectations (54.4), while [[JOLTS]] job openings dropped below previous levels to 7.1M.

- **Thursday:** [[Unemployment Claims]] came in at **208k**. This actually beat expectations (which were 210k), showing the labor market is holding slightly tighter than anticipated.

- **Friday:** [[Non-farm employment change]] (NFP) is forecasted to be 66k (though some desks are eyeing the 74k mark) with the previous sitting at 64k.


[[NFP]] drops tomorrow, and the result will be key to determining dollar strength.

I think it is important to note the efficiency of the Venezuela operation. Despite this, the delayed data and current releases are a mixed bag, which is holding the dollar back for now. Once the dollar gains footing on more data, if the USA continues its path of dominance without overextension. I am expecting an aggressive rebalancing against last year’s massive dollar decline due to tariffs.

***In these uncertain times, it is important to trade with intent and poise.***
